---
layout: post
title:  "The Islamic Golden Age: a Precursor to the Modern West?"
author: umit
categories: [ Articles ]
image: assets/images/goldenage.jpg
tags: [ sticky ] 
---
During his ninth-century reign, the seventh Abbasid caliph Al-Ma’mun established the Bayt al-Hikmah—the House of Wisdom. He founded this academy during a period historians term the Translation Movement, when sponsored scholars translated earlier texts like the Organon and other Hellenistic, even Indian texts into Syriac or Arabic. Most of these translated texts were kept in the House’s libraries (Meri et al. 610), and some historians suggest it to have held at least 100,000 volumes while, during the same century, Europe’s largest library in Paris housed just around four hundred (Winter). But the Translation Movement soon traveled with the Arabs to other countries, especially Spain. Through Spain the works of prominent Muslim philosophers such as Ibn Sina percolated into Europe’s reluctantly curious population. That Europeans Latinized his name to Avicenna alone suggests his prominent and reaching influence into the continent. When contributing to the Muslim Kalam arguments, Ibm Sina anticipated two of St. Thomas Aquinas’ proofs: he argued that all creatures necessarily exist by depending “on causes external to them." He established all creatures’ contingency, therefore, as opposed to God’s self-dependent Existence upon which His creation depends (Meri et al. 370; Rizvi 1). In his third proof, Aquinas reiterates God’s Necessary Existence almost exactly: “[Not] all beings are merely possible, but there must exist something the existence of which is necessary...not receiving [its necessity] from another” (Doc. 5). Creatures exist, according to Aquinas, by depending on other creatures. This relation’s inability to infinitely regress accordingly reveals an ultimate source: an independent, self-sufficient God, “Whose One Necessary [Existence] is due to Itself [Alone]” (Meri et al. 370). Some scholars even speculate that Aquinas obtained his first and last proofs - which were distinctly Aristotelian - from Arabic translations of Aristotle that reached him in Latin. Many in Aquinas's time, including the pope himself, sought these proofs (Brown). Through Baghdad’s outreaching Translation Movement, the preceding Muslim ideas to Aquinas’s proofs contributed to the European intellectual revival.

*This article is a draft.*
